In protected mode, the Intel 64 and IA-32 architectures provide a protection 
mechanism that operates at both the segment level and the page level. This 
protection mechanism provides the ability to limit access to certain segments
or pages based on privilege levels.

Critical operating-system code and data can be protected by placing them in
more privileged segments then those containing applications code. 

When the protection mechanism is used, each memory reference is checked to 
verify that it satisfies various protection checks. All checks are made before 
the memory cycle is started; any violation results in an exception. Because
checks are performed in parallel with address translation, there is no 
performance penalty. The protection checks that are performed fall into the
following categories:
	* limit checks
	* type checks
	* Privilege level checks.
	* Restriction of addressable domain.
	* Restriction of procedure entry-points.
	* Restriction of instruction set.

All protection violation results in an exception being generated.

Setting the PE flag in register CR0 causes the processor to switch to protected
mode, which in turn enables the segment-protection mechanism.

The processor's segment-protection mechanism recognizes 4 privilege levels,
numbered from 0 to 3. The greater numbers mean lesser privileges. 

Current Privilege Level (CPL) - The CPL is the privilege level of the currently
executing program or task. It is stored in bits 0 and 1 of the CS and SS segment
registers. Normally, the CPL is equal to the privilege level of the code segment
from which instructions are being fetched. The processor changes the CPL when
program control is transferred to a code segment with a different privilege 
level. The CPL is treated slightly differently when accessing conforming code
segments. Conforming code segments can be accessed from any privilege level 
that is equal to or numerically greater then the DPL of the conforming code
segment. 

Descriptor privilege level (DPL) - The DPL is the privilege level of a segment
or gate.

If the operating system uses multiple privilege levels it must create and load
a TSS.
