				8259A
	 	 PROGRAMMABLE INTERRUPT CONTROLLER

The intel 8259A Programmable Interrupt Controller handles up to eight vectored
priority interrupts for the CPU. It is cascadable for up to 64 vectored priority
interrupts without additional circuitry. It is packaged in a 28-pin DIP, uses
NMOS technology and requires a single +5V supply. Circuitry is static, 
requiring no clock input.

The 8259A is designed to minimize the software and real time overhead in 
handling multi-level priority interrupts. It has several modes, permitting 
optimization for a variety of system requirements.

Functional Description
----------------------

Interrupts in Microcomputer Systems.

The Programmable Interrupt Controller (PIC) functions as an overall manager in
an Interrupt-Driven system environment. It accepts requests from the peripheral
equipment, determines which of the incoming requests is of the highest 
importance (priority), ascertains whether the incoming request has a higher
priority value than the level currently being serviced, and issues an interrupt
to the CPU based on this determination.

Each peripheral device or structure usually has a special program or "routine"
that is associated with its specific functional or operational requirements;
this is referred to as a "service routine". The PIC, after issuing an Interrupt
to the CPU, must somehow input information into the CPU that can "point" the
Program Counter to the service routine associated with the requesting device.
This "pointer" is an address in a vectoring table and will often be referred to,
in this document, as vectoring data.

The 8259A is a device specifically designed for use in real time, interrupt 
driven microcomputer systems. It manages eight levels or requests and has 
built-in features for expandability in other 8259A's (up to 64 levels).It is 
programmed by the system's software as an I/O peripheral. A selection of 
priority modes is available to the programmer so that the manner in which the
requests are processed by the 8259A can be configured to match his system 
requirements. The priority modes can be changed or reconfigured dynamically at
any time during the main program. This means that the complete interrupt 
structure can be defined as required, based on the total system environment.

INTERRUPT REQUEST REGISTER (IRR) AND IN-SERVICE REGISTER (ISR)
The interrupts at the IR input lines are handled by two registers in cascade,
the Interrupt Request Register (IRR) and the In-Service (ISR). The IRR is used
to store all the interrupt levels which are requesting service; and the ISR is 
used to store all the interrupt levels which are being serviced.

PRIORITY RESOLVER
This logic block determines the priorites of the bits set in the IRR. The 
highest priority is selected and strobed into the corresponding bit of the ISR
during INTA pulse

INTERRUPT MASK REGISTER(IMR)
The IMR stores the bits which mask the interrupt lines to be masked. The IMR
Operates on the IRR. Masking of a higher priority input will not affect the 
interrupt request lines of lower quality.

INT (INTERRUPT)
This output goes directly to the CPU interrupt input. The Voh level on this line
is designed to be fully compatible with the 8080A, 8085A and 8086 input levels.

INTA (INTERRUPT ACKNOWLEDGE)
INTA pulses will cause the 8259A to release vectoring information onto the data
bus. The format of this data depends on the system mode (uPM) of the 8259A.

DATA BUS BUFFER
This 3-state, bidirectional 8-bit buffer is used to interface the 8258A to the
system Data Bus. Control words and status information are transferred through
the Data Bus Buffer.

READ/WRITE CONTROL LOGIC
The function of this block is to accept OUTput commands from the CPU. It 
constains the Initalization Command Word (ICW) registers and Operation Command
Word (OCW) registers which stare the various control formats for device 
operation. This function block also allows the status of the 8259A to be
transferred onto the Data Bus.

CS (CHIP SELECT)
A LOW on this input enables the 8259A. No reading or writing of the chip will
occur unless the device is selected. 

WR (WRITE)
A LOW on this input enables the CPU to write control words (ICWs and OCWs) to 
the 8259A.

RD (READ)
A LOW on this input enables the 8259A to send the status of the Interrupt 
Request Register (IRR), in Service Register (ISR), the Interrupt Mask Register
(IMR), or the Interrupt level onto the Data Bus.

A0
This input signal is used in conjunction with WR and RD signals to write 
commands into the various command registers, as well as reading the various
status registers of the chip. This line can be tied directly to one of the
address lines.

THE CASCADE BUFFER/COMPARATOR
This function block stores and compares the IDs of all 8259A's used in the 
system. The associated three I/O pins (CAS0-2) are outputs when the 8259A is
used as a master and are inputs when the 8259A is used as a slave. As a master,
the 8295A sends the ID of the interrupting slave device onto the CAS0-2 lines.
The slave thus selected will send its preprogrammed subroutine address onto the
Data Bus during the next one or two consecutive INTA pulses.


INTERRUPT SEQUENCE
The powerful features of the 8259A in a microcomputer system are its 
programmability and the interrupt routing addressing capabillity. The latter 
allows direct or indirect jumping to the specific interrupt routine requested
without any polling of the interrupting devices. The normal sequence of events
during an interrupt depends on the type of CPU being used.

